components/vector_icons/README.md, before:

# Vectorized icons in native Chrome UI

## Background

Chrome can draw vectorized images using Skia. Vector images have the advantages of looking better at different scale factors or sizes, can be easily colorized at runtime, and reduce the chrome binary size.

Chrome uses `.icon` files to describe vector icons. This is a bespoke file format which is actually a C++ array definition. At build time, the `.icon` files are composed into a .cc file which is compiled into the binary.

Vector icons can be found in various `vector_icons` subdirectories throughout the code base. Use `components/vector_icons/` for generic icons shared among many directories and components, or more specific directories such as `ui/views/vector_icons` or `ash/resources/vector_icons` for less widely used icons.

Some of the `.icon` files have multiple variants of the same icon (contained within the same file). See [Why do we need multiples sizes of vector icons](#why-do-we-need-multiple-sizes-of-vector-icons).

## Converting an SVG to .icon format

[This tool](http://evanstade.github.io/skiafy/) generates `.icon` file output from SVGs. (If you want to contribute improvements, [here's the project](https://github.com/evanstade/skiafy).)

It handles only a small subset of SVG (paths, circles, etc.) and it's finicky about what it expects as the format, but with a minor amount of manual intervention beforehand, it mostly spits out usable `.icon` output. It will often work better if you run the SVG through SVGO first, which is a separate project (an SVG minifier). [Jake Archibald's SVGOMG](https://jakearchibald.github.io/svgomg/) is a web interface to SVGO. If any manual adjustments need to be made to the output, the [SVG Path spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/paths.html) is a helpful reference; compare with the relevant [Chromium drawing commands](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/ui/gfx/vector_icon_types.h?rcl=b9bf332694f083c6767416b69d0f8539d1c44707&l=22).

Some SVGs are already pretty minimal, like the ones at [the Material Design Icon repository](https://material.io/icons/) so they don't require much if any adjustment, but some SVG editing tools like Sketch leave a lot of random cruft so SVGOMG helps a lot. Take the output and insert into a `.icon` file.

### Troubleshooting icon generation

+ **My colors are inverted!** There is probably a surplus square path encompassing your icon. For example, `<path d="M0 0h16v16H0z"/>`. Delete this and try again.

## Using .icon files

### Adding new icons

Once you have created an `.icon` file, place it in an appropriate `vector_icon` subdirectory and add the filename to the corresponding `BUILD.gn`. A constant is automatically generated so that the icon can be referenced at runtime. The icon file `foo_bar.icon` is mapped to the constant name of `kFooBarIcon` ('k' + camel-cased filename + 'Icon'), which you can use to reference that icon in code. The icon's name should match its identifier on [the MD icons site](https://material.io/icons/) if that's where it came from. For example, `ic_accessibility` would become `accessibility.icon`.

### Icons with multiple definitions

To add multiple icon definitions to a single `.icon` file, place the definitions generated by Skiafy in descending order of size. Each definition after the first must start with a `CANVAS_DIMENSIONS` directive.

Your icon may not need multiple definitions. Don't add different sizes that are exact copies of one another with a scaling multiplier applied.

### In code

A sample call site to create an icon for the `foo_bar.icon` file looks something like:

    gfx::CreateVectorIcon(kFooBarIcon, 32, color_utils::DeriveDefaultIconColor(text_color));

If the size argument is unspecified, the size will be taken from the smallest icon size in the `.icon` file.

`CreateVectorIcon()` will use the icon definition that best matches the final pixel size required, which is the product of DIP and the device scale factor (DSF). For example, for a DIP size of 32 and DSF of 100%, a rep with `CANVAS_DIMENSIONS, 32,` would be used, whereas a configuration with DSF of 150% would prefer a rep with `CANVAS_DIMENSIONS, 48`.

## FAQ

### Where can I use vector icons?

Chrome's native UI on desktop platforms. Currently the vector icons are in extensive use on Views platforms, where Skia is the normal drawing tool. Mac uses them sometimes, but optimizing performance is still a [TODO](http://crbug.com/595035) so many places stick with raster assets. The files in `chrome/app/theme/default_*_percent/legacy` are ones that have been switched to vector icons for Views but not yet for OS X. If you need to add raster assets (PNG) for mobile or OS X, please make sure to limit their inclusion to those platforms.

### How can I preview vector icons?

Use [this extension](https://github.com/sadrulhc/vector-icons) to preview icons in [codesearch](http://cs.chromium.org/).

You can also build and run the `views_examples_exe` (or `views_examples_with_content_exe`) target and select "Vector Icons" from the dropdown menu. This loads a simple interface which allows you view a provided vector icon file at a specified size and color. Contributions to improve this interface are welcome ([bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=630295)).

### Can my vector icon have more than one color?

Yes. You can hard-code colors for specific path elements by adding a `PATH_COLOR_ARGB` command to the appropriate place within the .icon file. Any path elements which are not given a hard-coded color in this manner will use the color provided to `CreateVectorIcon()` at runtime.

### When introducing a new icon, should I use a PNG or a vector icon?

Use a vector icon, unless the icon is extremely complex (e.g., a product logo). Also see above, "Where can I use vector icons?"

### I see mentions of '.1x.icon' files on the bug tracker. What are those?

A deprecated format where different icon representations were spread across different files.

### Why do we need multiple sizes of **vector** icons?

Even though these icons are vector, sometimes they may still be blurry or fuzzy drawn at different sizes. This is due to the icon not being aligned to the pixel grid and is more obvious at small sizes. In these cases, it is better to design an additional icon specifically for that size. For larger icons, the line stroke width used is often thicker (e.g. 2px for 100%, 3px for 200%), or they may include more detail omitted from smaller ones.

Commit message:

Add note about trademarked resources to vector_icons/README.md
Bug: none
Change-Id: I5cdf1b9bcd9ae0657ed93c374579c07d99ffc4a6
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2001844
Reviewed-by: Avi Drissman <avi@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Evan Stade <estade@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#732056}

components/vector_icons/README.md, after:

# Vectorized icons in native Chrome UI

## Background

Chrome can draw vectorized images using Skia. Vector images have the advantages of looking better at different scale factors or sizes, can be easily colorized at runtime, and reduce the chrome binary size.

Chrome uses `.icon` files to describe vector icons. This is a bespoke file format which is actually a C++ array definition. At build time, the `.icon` files are composed into a .cc file which is compiled into the binary.

Vector icons can be found in various `vector_icons` subdirectories throughout the code base. Use `components/vector_icons/` for generic icons shared among many directories and components, or more specific directories such as `ui/views/vector_icons` or `ash/resources/vector_icons` for less widely used icons.

Some of the `.icon` files have multiple variants of the same icon (contained within the same file). See [Why do we need multiples sizes of vector icons](#why-do-we-need-multiple-sizes-of-vector-icons).

## Converting an SVG to .icon format

[This tool](http://evanstade.github.io/skiafy/) generates `.icon` file output from SVGs. (If you want to contribute improvements, [here's the project](https://github.com/evanstade/skiafy).)

It handles only a small subset of SVG (paths, circles, etc.) and it's finicky about what it expects as the format, but with a minor amount of manual intervention beforehand, it mostly spits out usable `.icon` output. It will often work better if you run the SVG through SVGO first, which is a separate project (an SVG minifier). [Jake Archibald's SVGOMG](https://jakearchibald.github.io/svgomg/) is a web interface to SVGO. If any manual adjustments need to be made to the output, the [SVG Path spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/paths.html) is a helpful reference; compare with the relevant [Chromium drawing commands](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/ui/gfx/vector_icon_types.h?rcl=b9bf332694f083c6767416b69d0f8539d1c44707&l=22).

Some SVGs are already pretty minimal, like the ones at [the Material Design Icon repository](https://material.io/icons/) so they don't require much if any adjustment, but some SVG editing tools like Sketch leave a lot of random cruft so SVGOMG helps a lot. Take the output and insert into a `.icon` file.

### Troubleshooting icon generation

+ **My colors are inverted!** There is probably a surplus square path encompassing your icon. For example, `<path d="M0 0h16v16H0z"/>`. Delete this and try again.

## Using .icon files

### Adding new icons

Once you have created an `.icon` file, place it in an appropriate `vector_icon` subdirectory and add the filename to the corresponding `BUILD.gn`. A constant is automatically generated so that the icon can be referenced at runtime. The icon file `foo_bar.icon` is mapped to the constant name of `kFooBarIcon` ('k' + camel-cased filename + 'Icon'), which you can use to reference that icon in code. The icon's name should match its identifier on [the MD icons site](https://material.io/icons/) if that's where it came from. For example, `ic_accessibility` would become `accessibility.icon`.

Make sure not to add [trademarked resources](../../docs/google_chrome_branded_builds.md) such as Google product logos to the Chromium repo.

### Icons with multiple definitions

To add multiple icon definitions to a single `.icon` file, place the definitions generated by Skiafy in descending order of size. Each definition after the first must start with a `CANVAS_DIMENSIONS` directive.

Your icon may not need multiple definitions. Don't add different sizes that are exact copies of one another with a scaling multiplier applied.

### In code

A sample call site to create an icon for the `foo_bar.icon` file looks something like:

    gfx::CreateVectorIcon(kFooBarIcon, 32, color_utils::DeriveDefaultIconColor(text_color));

If the size argument is unspecified, the size will be taken from the smallest icon size in the `.icon` file.

`CreateVectorIcon()` will use the icon definition that best matches the final pixel size required, which is the product of DIP and the device scale factor (DSF). For example, for a DIP size of 32 and DSF of 100%, a rep with `CANVAS_DIMENSIONS, 32,` would be used, whereas a configuration with DSF of 150% would prefer a rep with `CANVAS_DIMENSIONS, 48`.

## FAQ

### Where can I use vector icons?

Chrome's native UI on desktop platforms. Currently the vector icons are in extensive use on Views platforms, where Skia is the normal drawing tool. Mac uses them sometimes, but optimizing performance is still a [TODO](http://crbug.com/595035) so many places stick with raster assets. The files in `chrome/app/theme/default_*_percent/legacy` are ones that have been switched to vector icons for Views but not yet for OS X. If you need to add raster assets (PNG) for mobile or OS X, please make sure to limit their inclusion to those platforms.

### How can I preview vector icons?

Use [this extension](https://github.com/sadrulhc/vector-icons) to preview icons in [codesearch](http://cs.chromium.org/).

You can also build and run the `views_examples_exe` (or `views_examples_with_content_exe`) target and select "Vector Icons" from the dropdown menu. This loads a simple interface which allows you view a provided vector icon file at a specified size and color. Contributions to improve this interface are welcome ([bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=630295)).

### Can my vector icon have more than one color?

Yes. You can hard-code colors for specific path elements by adding a `PATH_COLOR_ARGB` command to the appropriate place within the .icon file. Any path elements which are not given a hard-coded color in this manner will use the color provided to `CreateVectorIcon()` at runtime.

### When introducing a new icon, should I use a PNG or a vector icon?

Use a vector icon, unless the icon is extremely complex (e.g., a product logo). Also see above, "Where can I use vector icons?"

### I see mentions of '.1x.icon' files on the bug tracker. What are those?

A deprecated format where different icon representations were spread across different files.

### Why do we need multiple sizes of **vector** icons?

Even though these icons are vector, sometimes they may still be blurry or fuzzy drawn at different sizes. This is due to the icon not being aligned to the pixel grid and is more obvious at small sizes. In these cases, it is better to design an additional icon specifically for that size. For larger icons, the line stroke width used is often thicker (e.g. 2px for 100%, 3px for 200%), or they may include more detail omitted from smaller ones.
