base/android/jni_generator/README.md, before:

# Overview
JNI (Java Native Interface) is the mechanism that enables Java code to call
native functions, and native code to call Java functions.

 * Native code calls into Java using apis from `<jni.h>`, which basically mirror
   Java's reflection APIs.
 * Java code calls native functions by declaring body-less functions with the
  `native` keyword, and then calling them as normal Java functions.

`jni_generator` generates boiler-plate code with the goal of making our code:
 1. easier to write, and
 2. typesafe.

`jni_generator` uses regular expressions to parse .Java files, so don't do
anything too fancy. E.g.:
 * Classes must be either explicitly imported, or are assumed to be in
the same package. To use `java.lang` classes, add an explicit import.
 * Inner classes need to be referenced through the outer class. E.g.:
   `void call(Outer.Inner inner)`

The presense of any JNI within a class will result in ProGuard obfuscation for
the class to be disabled.

### Exposing Native Methods

**Without Crazy Linker:**
 * Java->Native calls are exported from the shared library and lazily resolved
   by the runtime (via `dlsym()`).

**With Crazy Linker:**
 * Java->Native calls are explicitly registered with JNI on the native side.
   Explicit registration is necessary because crazy linker provides its own
   `dlsym()`, but JNI is hardcoded to use the system's `dlsym()`.
   * The logic to explicitly register stubs is generated by
     `jni_registration_generator.py`.
     * This script finds all native methods by scanning all source `.java` files
       of an APK. Inefficient, but very convenient.
   * Since `dlsym()` is not used in this case, we use a linker script to avoid
     the cost of exporting symbols from the shared library (refer to
     `//build/config/android:hide_all_but_jni_onload`).
 * `jni_registration_generator.py` exposes two registrations methods:
   * `RegisterNonMainDexNatives` - Registers native functions needed by multiple
     process types (e.g. Rendereres, GPU process).
   * `RegisterMainDexNatives` - Registers native functions needed only by the
     browser process.

### Exposing Java Methods

Java methods just need to be annotated with `@CalledByNative`. The generated
functions can be put into a namespace using `@JNINamespace("your_namespace")`.

## Usage

Because the generator does not generate any source files, generated headers must
not be `#included` by multiple sources. If there are Java functions that need to
be called by multiple sources, one source should be chosen to expose the
functions to the others via additional wrapper functions.

### Calling Java -> Native

There are two ways to call native methods:

**Method 1 - Using the 'native' keyword (soon to be deprecated)**

- Works for both static and non-static methods.
- Methods marked as `native` will have stubs generated for them that forward
  calls to C++ function (that you must write).
- If the first parameter is a C++ object (e.g. `long mNativePointer`), then the
  bindings will automatically generate the appropriate cast and call into C++
  code (JNI itself is only C).

**Method 2 - Using an interface annotated with @NativeMethods**

- Declare methods using a nested interface annotated with `@NativeMethods`.
- The JNI annotation processor generates a class named `${OriginalClassName}Jni`
  with a `get()` method that returns an implementation of the annotated
  interface. The C++ function that it routes to is the same as if it would be
  in the legacy method.
- See example below for usage.

To add JNI to a class:

1. Enable the JNI processor by adding to your `android_library` target:
   ```python
   annotation_processor_deps = [ "//base/android/jni_generator:jni_processor" ]
   deps = [ "//base:jni_java" ]
   ```
2. Create a nested-interface annotated with `@NativeMethods` that contains
   the declaration of the corresponding static methods you wish to have
   implemented.
3. Call native functions using `${OriginalClassName}Jni.get().${method}`

Example:
```java
// The following classes would have the same generated native bindings (with the
// exception of differing class names).

// Legacy/deprecated static methods
class Legacy {
  static native void nativeFoo();
  static native double nativeBar(int a, int b);

  // Either the |ClassName| part of the |nativeClassName| parameter name must
  // match the native class name exactly, or the method annotation
  // @NativeClassQualifiedName("ClassName") must be used.
  //
  // If the native class is nested, use
  // @NativeClassQualifiedName("FooClassName::BarClassName") and call the
  // parameter |nativePointer|.
  native void nativeNonStatic(long nativeClassName);

  void callNatives() {
    nativeFoo()
    nativeBar(1,2);
    nativeNonStatic(mNativePointer);
  }
}

// Equivalent using new style:
class NewStyle {
  // Cannot be private. Must be package or public.
  @NativeMethods
  /* package */ interface Natives {
    void foo();
    double bar(int a, int b);
    // Either the |ClassName| part of the |nativeClassName| parameter name must
    // match the native class name exactly, or the method annotation
    // @NativeClassQualifiedName("ClassName") must be used.
    //
    // If the native class is nested, use
    // @NativeClassQualifiedName("FooClassName::BarClassName") and call the
    // parameter |nativePointer|.
    void nonStatic(long nativeClassName, NewStyle self);
  }

  void callNatives() {
    // NewStyleJni is generated by the JNI annotation processor.
    // Storing NewStyleJni.get() in a field defeats some of the desired R8
    // optimizations, but local variables are fine.
    Natives jni = NewStyleJni.get();
    jni.foo();
    jni.bar(1,2);
    jni.nonStatic(this, mNativePointer);
  }
}
```

#### Testing Mockable Natives

1. Add the `JniMocker` rule to your test.
2. Call `JniMocker#mock` in a `setUp()` method for each interface you want to
   stub out.

Note: Mocking native methods doesn't work in tests that are part of APKs that
use an [`apk_under_test`](https://cs.chromium.org/search/?q=file:BUILD.gn+%22apk_under_test+%3D%22&type=cs).
[This crbug](http://crbug.com/890452) tracks removing the `apk_under_test` variable.

JniMocker will reset the stubs during `tearDown()`.

```java
/**
 * Tests for {@link AnimationFrameTimeHistogram}
 */
@RunWith(BaseRobolectricTestRunner.class)
@Config(manifest = Config.NONE)
public class AnimationFrameTimeHistogramTest {
    @Rule
    public JniMocker mocker = new JniMocker();

    @Mock
    AnimationFrameTimeHistogram.Natives mNativeMock;

    @Before
    public void setUp() {
        MockitoAnnotations.initMocks(this);
        mocker.mock(AnimationFrameTimeHistogramJni.TEST_HOOKS, mNativeMock);
    }

    @Test
    public void testNatives() {
        AnimationFrameTimeHistogram hist = new AnimationFrameTimeHistogram("histName");
        hist.startRecording();
        hist.endRecording();
        verify(mNativeMock).saveHistogram(eq("histName"), any(long[].class), anyInt());
    }
}
```

If a native method is called without setting a mock in a unit test, an
`UnsupportedOperationException` will be thrown.

### Calling Native -> Java

 * Methods annotated with `@CalledByNative` will have stubs generated for them.
   * Inner class methods must provide the inner class name explicitly
     (ex. `@CalledByNative("InnerClassName")`)
 * Just call the generated stubs defined in generated `.h` files.

### Java Objects and Garbage Collection

All pointers to Java objects must be registered with JNI in order to prevent
garbage collection from invalidating them.

For Strings & Arrays - it's common practice to use the `//base/android/jni_*`
helpers to convert them to `std::vectors` and `std::strings` as soon as
possible.

For other objects - use smart pointers to store them:
 * `ScopedJavaLocalRef<>` - When lifetime is the current function's scope.
 * `ScopedJavaGlobalRef<>` - When lifetime is longer than the current function's
   scope.
 * `JavaObjectWeakGlobalRef<>` - Weak reference (do not prevent garbage
   collection).
 * `JavaParamRef<>` - Use to accept any of the above as a parameter to a
   function without creating a redundant registration.

### Native Java Unittests and @CalledByNativeJavaTest

Native Java Unittests are Java unit tests that run on Android (not on the host
machine). Unlike junit and robolectric, these tests can use the native library,
and real Android APIs. Unlike unit tests in ChromePublicTestApk and similar, the
Activity is not restarted between tests, so the tests run much faster (and you
must be careful not to leave state behind). Example tests may be found in
chrome/android/native_java_unittests/.

The @CalledByNativeJavaTest annotation causes the JNI generator to generate
C++ test methods that simply call out to the Java test methods.

For Example:
```java
class FooTest {
  @CalledByNative public FooTest() {}
  @CalledByNativeJavaTest public void testFoo() { ... }
  @CalledByNativeJavaTest public void testOtherFoo() { ... }
}
```
```c++
class FooTest : public ::testing::Test {
  FooTest() : j_test_(Java_FooTest_Constructor(AttachCurrentThread())) {}
  const ScopedJavaGlobalRef<jobject>& j_test() { return j_test_; }
 private:
  ScopedJavaGlobalRef<jobject> j_test_;
}
JAVA_TESTS(AndroidPaymentAppFinderUnitTest, j_test())
```

In some cases you may want to run custom C++ code before running the Java test,
in which case, use CalledByNative instead of CalledByNativeJavaTest and call the
test method yourself. eg. Java_FooTest_testFancyFoo(env, j_test());

### Additional Guidelines / Advice

Minimize the surface API between the two sides. Rather than calling multiple
functions across boundaries, call only one (and then on the other side, call as
many little functions as required).

If a Java object "owns" a native one, store the pointer via
`"long mNativeClassName"`. Ensure to eventually call a native method to delete
the object. For example, have a `close()` that deletes the native object.

The best way to pass "compound" types across in either direction is to
create an inner class with PODs and a factory function. If possible, make mark
all the fields as "final".

## Build Rules

 * `generate_jni` - Generates a header file with stubs for given `.java` files
 * `generate_jar_jni` - Generates a header file with stubs for a given `.jar`
   file
 * `generate_jni_registration` - Generates a header file with functions to
   register native-side JNI methods (required only when using crazy linker).

Refer to [//build/config/android/rules.gni](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/build/config/android/rules.gni)
for more about the GN templates.

## Changing `jni_generator`

 * Python unit tests live in `jni_generator_tests.py`
 * A working demo app exists as `//base/android/jni_generator:sample_jni_apk`

Commit message:

Introduce DisabledCalledByNativeJavaTest
This makes tests defined by CalledByNativeJavaTest easier to disable
by using the DisabledCalledByNativeJavaTest annotation.

Bug: 1042808
Change-Id: I8e30d5a092e765c786927d753b0a3a22be4a605d
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2008311
Commit-Queue: Michael Thiessen <mthiesse@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Yaron Friedman <yfriedman@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#733453}

base/android/jni_generator/README.md, after:

# Overview
JNI (Java Native Interface) is the mechanism that enables Java code to call
native functions, and native code to call Java functions.

 * Native code calls into Java using apis from `<jni.h>`, which basically mirror
   Java's reflection APIs.
 * Java code calls native functions by declaring body-less functions with the
  `native` keyword, and then calling them as normal Java functions.

`jni_generator` generates boiler-plate code with the goal of making our code:
 1. easier to write, and
 2. typesafe.

`jni_generator` uses regular expressions to parse .Java files, so don't do
anything too fancy. E.g.:
 * Classes must be either explicitly imported, or are assumed to be in
the same package. To use `java.lang` classes, add an explicit import.
 * Inner classes need to be referenced through the outer class. E.g.:
   `void call(Outer.Inner inner)`

The presense of any JNI within a class will result in ProGuard obfuscation for
the class to be disabled.

### Exposing Native Methods

**Without Crazy Linker:**
 * Java->Native calls are exported from the shared library and lazily resolved
   by the runtime (via `dlsym()`).

**With Crazy Linker:**
 * Java->Native calls are explicitly registered with JNI on the native side.
   Explicit registration is necessary because crazy linker provides its own
   `dlsym()`, but JNI is hardcoded to use the system's `dlsym()`.
   * The logic to explicitly register stubs is generated by
     `jni_registration_generator.py`.
     * This script finds all native methods by scanning all source `.java` files
       of an APK. Inefficient, but very convenient.
   * Since `dlsym()` is not used in this case, we use a linker script to avoid
     the cost of exporting symbols from the shared library (refer to
     `//build/config/android:hide_all_but_jni_onload`).
 * `jni_registration_generator.py` exposes two registrations methods:
   * `RegisterNonMainDexNatives` - Registers native functions needed by multiple
     process types (e.g. Rendereres, GPU process).
   * `RegisterMainDexNatives` - Registers native functions needed only by the
     browser process.

### Exposing Java Methods

Java methods just need to be annotated with `@CalledByNative`. The generated
functions can be put into a namespace using `@JNINamespace("your_namespace")`.

## Usage

Because the generator does not generate any source files, generated headers must
not be `#included` by multiple sources. If there are Java functions that need to
be called by multiple sources, one source should be chosen to expose the
functions to the others via additional wrapper functions.

### Calling Java -> Native

There are two ways to call native methods:

**Method 1 - Using the 'native' keyword (soon to be deprecated)**

- Works for both static and non-static methods.
- Methods marked as `native` will have stubs generated for them that forward
  calls to C++ function (that you must write).
- If the first parameter is a C++ object (e.g. `long mNativePointer`), then the
  bindings will automatically generate the appropriate cast and call into C++
  code (JNI itself is only C).

**Method 2 - Using an interface annotated with @NativeMethods**

- Declare methods using a nested interface annotated with `@NativeMethods`.
- The JNI annotation processor generates a class named `${OriginalClassName}Jni`
  with a `get()` method that returns an implementation of the annotated
  interface. The C++ function that it routes to is the same as if it would be
  in the legacy method.
- See example below for usage.

To add JNI to a class:

1. Enable the JNI processor by adding to your `android_library` target:
   ```python
   annotation_processor_deps = [ "//base/android/jni_generator:jni_processor" ]
   deps = [ "//base:jni_java" ]
   ```
2. Create a nested-interface annotated with `@NativeMethods` that contains
   the declaration of the corresponding static methods you wish to have
   implemented.
3. Call native functions using `${OriginalClassName}Jni.get().${method}`

Example:
```java
// The following classes would have the same generated native bindings (with the
// exception of differing class names).

// Legacy/deprecated static methods
class Legacy {
  static native void nativeFoo();
  static native double nativeBar(int a, int b);

  // Either the |ClassName| part of the |nativeClassName| parameter name must
  // match the native class name exactly, or the method annotation
  // @NativeClassQualifiedName("ClassName") must be used.
  //
  // If the native class is nested, use
  // @NativeClassQualifiedName("FooClassName::BarClassName") and call the
  // parameter |nativePointer|.
  native void nativeNonStatic(long nativeClassName);

  void callNatives() {
    nativeFoo()
    nativeBar(1,2);
    nativeNonStatic(mNativePointer);
  }
}

// Equivalent using new style:
class NewStyle {
  // Cannot be private. Must be package or public.
  @NativeMethods
  /* package */ interface Natives {
    void foo();
    double bar(int a, int b);
    // Either the |ClassName| part of the |nativeClassName| parameter name must
    // match the native class name exactly, or the method annotation
    // @NativeClassQualifiedName("ClassName") must be used.
    //
    // If the native class is nested, use
    // @NativeClassQualifiedName("FooClassName::BarClassName") and call the
    // parameter |nativePointer|.
    void nonStatic(long nativeClassName, NewStyle self);
  }

  void callNatives() {
    // NewStyleJni is generated by the JNI annotation processor.
    // Storing NewStyleJni.get() in a field defeats some of the desired R8
    // optimizations, but local variables are fine.
    Natives jni = NewStyleJni.get();
    jni.foo();
    jni.bar(1,2);
    jni.nonStatic(this, mNativePointer);
  }
}
```

#### Testing Mockable Natives

1. Add the `JniMocker` rule to your test.
2. Call `JniMocker#mock` in a `setUp()` method for each interface you want to
   stub out.

Note: Mocking native methods doesn't work in tests that are part of APKs that
use an [`apk_under_test`](https://cs.chromium.org/search/?q=file:BUILD.gn+%22apk_under_test+%3D%22&type=cs).
[This crbug](http://crbug.com/890452) tracks removing the `apk_under_test` variable.

JniMocker will reset the stubs during `tearDown()`.

```java
/**
 * Tests for {@link AnimationFrameTimeHistogram}
 */
@RunWith(BaseRobolectricTestRunner.class)
@Config(manifest = Config.NONE)
public class AnimationFrameTimeHistogramTest {
    @Rule
    public JniMocker mocker = new JniMocker();

    @Mock
    AnimationFrameTimeHistogram.Natives mNativeMock;

    @Before
    public void setUp() {
        MockitoAnnotations.initMocks(this);
        mocker.mock(AnimationFrameTimeHistogramJni.TEST_HOOKS, mNativeMock);
    }

    @Test
    public void testNatives() {
        AnimationFrameTimeHistogram hist = new AnimationFrameTimeHistogram("histName");
        hist.startRecording();
        hist.endRecording();
        verify(mNativeMock).saveHistogram(eq("histName"), any(long[].class), anyInt());
    }
}
```

If a native method is called without setting a mock in a unit test, an
`UnsupportedOperationException` will be thrown.

### Calling Native -> Java

 * Methods annotated with `@CalledByNative` will have stubs generated for them.
   * Inner class methods must provide the inner class name explicitly
     (ex. `@CalledByNative("InnerClassName")`)
 * Just call the generated stubs defined in generated `.h` files.

### Java Objects and Garbage Collection

All pointers to Java objects must be registered with JNI in order to prevent
garbage collection from invalidating them.

For Strings & Arrays - it's common practice to use the `//base/android/jni_*`
helpers to convert them to `std::vectors` and `std::strings` as soon as
possible.

For other objects - use smart pointers to store them:
 * `ScopedJavaLocalRef<>` - When lifetime is the current function's scope.
 * `ScopedJavaGlobalRef<>` - When lifetime is longer than the current function's
   scope.
 * `JavaObjectWeakGlobalRef<>` - Weak reference (do not prevent garbage
   collection).
 * `JavaParamRef<>` - Use to accept any of the above as a parameter to a
   function without creating a redundant registration.

### Native Java Unittests and @CalledByNativeJavaTest

Native Java Unittests are Java unit tests that run on Android (not on the host
machine). Unlike junit and robolectric, these tests can use the native library,
and real Android APIs. Unlike unit tests in ChromePublicTestApk and similar, the
Activity is not restarted between tests, so the tests run much faster (and you
must be careful not to leave state behind). Example tests may be found in
chrome/android/native_java_unittests/.

The @CalledByNativeJavaTest annotation causes the JNI generator to generate
C++ test methods that simply call out to the Java test methods.

For Example:
```java
class FooTest {
  @CalledByNative public FooTest() {}
  @CalledByNativeJavaTest public void testFoo() { ... }
  @CalledByNativeJavaTest public void testOtherFoo() { ... }
}
```
```c++
class FooTest : public ::testing::Test {
  FooTest() : j_test_(Java_FooTest_Constructor(AttachCurrentThread())) {}
  const ScopedJavaGlobalRef<jobject>& j_test() { return j_test_; }
 private:
  ScopedJavaGlobalRef<jobject> j_test_;
}
JAVA_TESTS(AndroidPaymentAppFinderUnitTest, j_test())
```

In some cases you may want to run custom C++ code before running the Java test,
in which case, use CalledByNative instead of CalledByNativeJavaTest and call the
test method yourself. eg. Java_FooTest_testFancyFoo(env, j_test());

#### Disabling @CalledByNativeJavaTest tests
In order to disabled a Native Java Unittest, replace the @CalledByNativeJavaTest
annotation with @DisabledCalledByNativeJavaTest. This will generate a native
test prefixed with DISABLED_.

Please note that unlike @DisabledTest, you should not provide a message in the
annotation as to why the test is disabled, as this will be interpreted as the
inner class name by the CalledByNative jni generator.

### Additional Guidelines / Advice

Minimize the surface API between the two sides. Rather than calling multiple
functions across boundaries, call only one (and then on the other side, call as
many little functions as required).

If a Java object "owns" a native one, store the pointer via
`"long mNativeClassName"`. Ensure to eventually call a native method to delete
the object. For example, have a `close()` that deletes the native object.

The best way to pass "compound" types across in either direction is to
create an inner class with PODs and a factory function. If possible, make mark
all the fields as "final".

## Build Rules

 * `generate_jni` - Generates a header file with stubs for given `.java` files
 * `generate_jar_jni` - Generates a header file with stubs for a given `.jar`
   file
 * `generate_jni_registration` - Generates a header file with functions to
   register native-side JNI methods (required only when using crazy linker).

Refer to [//build/config/android/rules.gni](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/build/config/android/rules.gni)
for more about the GN templates.

## Changing `jni_generator`

 * Python unit tests live in `jni_generator_tests.py`
 * A working demo app exists as `//base/android/jni_generator:sample_jni_apk`
