third_party/blink/renderer/core/workers/README.md, before:

This directory contains the base implementation of all worker and worklet types. Also, this contains the implementation of the [Web Workers API](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/C/#workers) (Dedicated Worker and Shared Worker) and [Worklets API](https://drafts.css-houdini.org/worklets/).

# Worker / Worklet types

- Workers are divided into 2 types:
  - **In-process workers (Dedicated Workers)**: A worker of this type always runs in the same renderer process with a parent document that starts the worker.
  - **Out-of-process workers (Shared Workers and Service Workers)**: A worker of this type may run in a different renderer process with a parent document that starts the worker.
- Worklets are divided into 2 types:
  - **Main thread worklets (Paint Worklets and Layout Worklets)**: A worklet of this type runs on the main thread.
  - **Threaded worklets (Audio Worklets and Animation Worklets)**: A worklet of this type runs on a worker thread.

Worklets always run in the same renderer process with a parent document that starts the worklet like the in-process-workers.

# Naming conventions

Classes in this directory are named with the following conventions, there're still some exceptions though.

- `WorkerOrWorklet` prefix: Classes commonly used for workers and worklets (e.g., `WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope`).
- `Worker` / `Worklet` prefix: Classes used for workers or worklets (e.g., `WorkerGlobalScope`).
- `Threaded` prefix: Classes used for workers and threaded worklets (e.g., `ThreadedMessagingProxyBase`).
- `MainThreadWorklet` prefix: Classes used for main thread worklets (e.g., `MainThreadWorkletReportingProxy`).

Thread hopping between the main (parent) thread and a worker thread is handled by proxy classes.

- `MessagingProxy` is the main (parent) thread side proxy that communicates to the worker thread.
- `ObjectProxy` is the worker thread side proxy that communicates to the main (parent) thread. `Object` indicates a worker/worklet JavaScript object on the parent execution context.

# Off-the-main-thread fetch

All worker subresources, and some of worker/worklet top-level scripts,
are fetched off-the-main-thread (i.e. on the worker/worklet thread).
See following docs for more details.

- [off-the-main-thread subresource fetch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1829D6zllR1qfwvwDXHb9pjhIcbM4EZ70EiaFAaPj9YQ/edit?usp=sharing), Done.
- [off-the-main-thread top-level script fetch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cI6UJGdeWvlavCzfxGh3hfWy7N62Yfsu_A98RxsCyys/edit?usp=sharing), ongoing.

There are two types of network fetch on the worker/worklet thread:
insideSettings and outsideSettings fetch.
The terms insideSettings and outsideSettings are originated from
[HTML spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/C/#worker-processing-model) and
[Worklet spec](https://drafts.css-houdini.org/worklets/).

## insideSettings fetch

insideSettings fetch is subresource fetch.

In the spec, insideSettings corresponds to the
[worker environment settings object](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/workers.html#set-up-a-worker-environment-settings-object)
of `WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope`.

In the implementation, insideSettings roughly corresponds to
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope`.
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::Fetcher()`,
its corresponding `WorkerFetchContext`, and
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::GetContentSecurityPolicy()` are used.

Currently, all subresource fetches are already off-the-main-thread.

## outsideSettings fetch

outsideSettings fetch is off-the-main-thread top-level worker/worklet
script fetch.

In the spec, an outsideSettings is the environment settings object of
worker's parent context.

In the implementation, outsideSettings should correspond to
`Document` (or `WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope` for nested workers), but
the worker thread can't access these objects due to threading restriction.
Therefore, we pass `FetchClientSettingsObjectSnapshot` that contains
information of these objects across threads, and create
`ResourceFetcher`, `WorkerFetchContext` and `ContentSecurityPolicy`
(separate objects from those used for insideSettings fetch)
on the worker thread.
They work as if the parent context, and are used via
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::CreateOutsideSettingsFetcher()`.

Note that, where off-the-main-thread top-level fetch is NOT enabled
(e.g. classic workers), the worker scripts are fetched on the main thread and
thus WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope and the worker thread are not involved.

# Metrics

## UseCounter

[UseCounter](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/platform/instrumentation/use_counter.h)
is available in all workers and worklets. The count mechanism varies based on
worker and worklet types as follows.

- Dedicated Workers and Worklets: A feature use in a dedicated worker or worklet
is propagated to the parent document, and then recorded in the document's
UseCounter. For nested dedicated workers, a feature use is propagated up to the
ancestor document via parent workers.
- Shared Workers: A feature use in a shared worker is propagated to all
documents connected to the shared worker via mojo calls, and then recorded in
their UseCounter.
- Service Workers: A feature use in a service worker is propagated to all
documents and workers being controlled by the service worker via mojo calls, and
then recorded in their UseCounter. When a feature use occurs before the service
worker finishes installing, the feature use is stored in service worker storage.
It is read whenever the installed service worker is started. See
[content/browser/service_worker/README.md](/content/browser/service_worker/README.md)
for details.

`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::CountUse()` is the common entry point. For more
details, see [Design of UseCounter for
workers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VyYZnhjBdk-MzCRAcX37TM5-yjwTY40U_J9rWnEAo8c/edit?usp=sharing)
and [crbug 376039](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=376039).

There are some fundamental metrics.

- [WorkerStart](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/4)
: Counts of `new DedicatedWorker()` calls in `Document` and
`DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope`.
- [ClassicDedicatedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/3084)
: Counts of new DedicatedWorker() calls with `{ type: 'classic' }` or without `WorkerOptions#type` argument.
- [ModuleDedicatedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/3085)
: Counts of new DedicatedWorker() calls with `{ type: 'module' }`.
- [NestedDedicatedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2499)
: Counts of `new DedicatedWorker()` calls in `DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope`.
- [SharedWorkerStart](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/5)
: Counts of `new SharedWorker()` calls in `Document`.
- [WorkletAddModule](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2364)
: Counts of `Worklet#addModule()` calls in `Document`. This includes all worklet
types. Each worklet type has its own counter, too.

## UMA

The UMA data is internal-only.

- WorkerThread.ExitCode : Records the exit code of `WorkerThread`.

# Tests

When you add a new worker or worklet type, please consider adding tests in
following files and directories to check integration with the underlying worker
and worklet infrastructure.

- Web Platform Tests
  - [workers/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/workers/)
  - [worklets/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/worklets/)
- Web tests
  - [webexposed/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/webexposed/)
  - [workers/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/http/tests/workers/)
  - [worklet/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/http/tests/worklet/)
- Unit tests
  - [content/browser/worker_host/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/browser/worker_host/)
  - [content/renderer/worker/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/renderer/worker/)
  - [third_party/blink/renderer/core/workers/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/core/workers/)
- Browser tests
  - [chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc)
  - [content/browser/worker_host/worker_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/browser/worker_host/worker_browsertest.cc)

Workers and worklets interact with various features. You should also add tests
in the following files and directories to avoid breakage.

- Web Platform Tests
  - [content-security-policy/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/content-security-policy/)
  - [fetch/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/fetch/)
  - [mixed-content/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/mixed-content/)
  - [performance-timeline/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/performance-timeline/)
  - [referrer-policy/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/referrer-policy/)
  - [resource-timing/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/resource-timing/)
  - [secure-contexts/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/secure-contexts/)
  - [service-workers/service-worker/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/service-workers/service-worker/)
  - [upgrade-insecure-requests/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/upgrade-insecure-requests/)
  - [websockets/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/websockets/)
- Browser tests
  - [chrome/browser/chrome_do_not_track_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/chrome_do_not_track_browsertest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/extensions/api/web_request/web_request_apitest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/extensions/api/web_request/web_request_apitest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/ssl/ssl_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/ssl/ssl_browsertest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/subresource_filter/subresource_filter_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/subresource_filter/subresource_filter_browsertest.cc)

# References

- [WorkerGlobalScope Initialization](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JCv8TD2nPLNC2iRCp_D1OM4I3uTS0HoEobuTymaMqgw/edit?usp=sharing) (April 1, 2019)
- [Worker / Worklet Internals](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GZJ3VnLIO_Pw0jr9nRw6_-trg68ol-AkliMxJ6jo6Bo/edit?usp=sharing) (April 19, 2018)
- [Design of UseCounter for workers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VyYZnhjBdk-MzCRAcX37TM5-yjwTY40U_J9rWnEAo8c/edit?usp=sharing) (Feb 14, 2017)

Commit message:

SharedWorker: Add use counter to shared worker module script loadings
This CL adds use counter.
When SharedWorker constructor is called with 'classic' type,
ClassicSharedWorker is counted. If not, ModuleSharedWorker is counted.
If type attribute is not defined, it is regarded as ClassicScript.

Bug: 1023338
Change-Id: Ia126a51df040d363c66cbe0a7ff91a5e59849eaa
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2018354
Commit-Queue: Eriko Kurimoto <elkurin@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Kenichi Ishibashi <bashi@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Hiroki Nakagawa <nhiroki@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Makoto Shimazu <shimazu@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#735782}

third_party/blink/renderer/core/workers/README.md, after:

This directory contains the base implementation of all worker and worklet types. Also, this contains the implementation of the [Web Workers API](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/C/#workers) (Dedicated Worker and Shared Worker) and [Worklets API](https://drafts.css-houdini.org/worklets/).

# Worker / Worklet types

- Workers are divided into 2 types:
  - **In-process workers (Dedicated Workers)**: A worker of this type always runs in the same renderer process with a parent document that starts the worker.
  - **Out-of-process workers (Shared Workers and Service Workers)**: A worker of this type may run in a different renderer process with a parent document that starts the worker.
- Worklets are divided into 2 types:
  - **Main thread worklets (Paint Worklets and Layout Worklets)**: A worklet of this type runs on the main thread.
  - **Threaded worklets (Audio Worklets and Animation Worklets)**: A worklet of this type runs on a worker thread.

Worklets always run in the same renderer process with a parent document that starts the worklet like the in-process-workers.

# Naming conventions

Classes in this directory are named with the following conventions, there're still some exceptions though.

- `WorkerOrWorklet` prefix: Classes commonly used for workers and worklets (e.g., `WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope`).
- `Worker` / `Worklet` prefix: Classes used for workers or worklets (e.g., `WorkerGlobalScope`).
- `Threaded` prefix: Classes used for workers and threaded worklets (e.g., `ThreadedMessagingProxyBase`).
- `MainThreadWorklet` prefix: Classes used for main thread worklets (e.g., `MainThreadWorkletReportingProxy`).

Thread hopping between the main (parent) thread and a worker thread is handled by proxy classes.

- `MessagingProxy` is the main (parent) thread side proxy that communicates to the worker thread.
- `ObjectProxy` is the worker thread side proxy that communicates to the main (parent) thread. `Object` indicates a worker/worklet JavaScript object on the parent execution context.

# Off-the-main-thread fetch

All worker subresources, and some of worker/worklet top-level scripts,
are fetched off-the-main-thread (i.e. on the worker/worklet thread).
See following docs for more details.

- [off-the-main-thread subresource fetch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1829D6zllR1qfwvwDXHb9pjhIcbM4EZ70EiaFAaPj9YQ/edit?usp=sharing), Done.
- [off-the-main-thread top-level script fetch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cI6UJGdeWvlavCzfxGh3hfWy7N62Yfsu_A98RxsCyys/edit?usp=sharing), ongoing.

There are two types of network fetch on the worker/worklet thread:
insideSettings and outsideSettings fetch.
The terms insideSettings and outsideSettings are originated from
[HTML spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/C/#worker-processing-model) and
[Worklet spec](https://drafts.css-houdini.org/worklets/).

## insideSettings fetch

insideSettings fetch is subresource fetch.

In the spec, insideSettings corresponds to the
[worker environment settings object](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/workers.html#set-up-a-worker-environment-settings-object)
of `WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope`.

In the implementation, insideSettings roughly corresponds to
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope`.
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::Fetcher()`,
its corresponding `WorkerFetchContext`, and
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::GetContentSecurityPolicy()` are used.

Currently, all subresource fetches are already off-the-main-thread.

## outsideSettings fetch

outsideSettings fetch is off-the-main-thread top-level worker/worklet
script fetch.

In the spec, an outsideSettings is the environment settings object of
worker's parent context.

In the implementation, outsideSettings should correspond to
`Document` (or `WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope` for nested workers), but
the worker thread can't access these objects due to threading restriction.
Therefore, we pass `FetchClientSettingsObjectSnapshot` that contains
information of these objects across threads, and create
`ResourceFetcher`, `WorkerFetchContext` and `ContentSecurityPolicy`
(separate objects from those used for insideSettings fetch)
on the worker thread.
They work as if the parent context, and are used via
`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::CreateOutsideSettingsFetcher()`.

Note that, where off-the-main-thread top-level fetch is NOT enabled
(e.g. classic workers), the worker scripts are fetched on the main thread and
thus WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope and the worker thread are not involved.

# Metrics

## UseCounter

[UseCounter](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/platform/instrumentation/use_counter.h)
is available in all workers and worklets. The count mechanism varies based on
worker and worklet types as follows.

- Dedicated Workers and Worklets: A feature use in a dedicated worker or worklet
is propagated to the parent document, and then recorded in the document's
UseCounter. For nested dedicated workers, a feature use is propagated up to the
ancestor document via parent workers.
- Shared Workers: A feature use in a shared worker is propagated to all
documents connected to the shared worker via mojo calls, and then recorded in
their UseCounter.
- Service Workers: A feature use in a service worker is propagated to all
documents and workers being controlled by the service worker via mojo calls, and
then recorded in their UseCounter. When a feature use occurs before the service
worker finishes installing, the feature use is stored in service worker storage.
It is read whenever the installed service worker is started. See
[content/browser/service_worker/README.md](/content/browser/service_worker/README.md)
for details.

`WorkerOrWorkletGlobalScope::CountUse()` is the common entry point. For more
details, see [Design of UseCounter for
workers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VyYZnhjBdk-MzCRAcX37TM5-yjwTY40U_J9rWnEAo8c/edit?usp=sharing)
and [crbug 376039](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=376039).

There are some fundamental metrics.

- [WorkerStart](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/4)
: Counts of `new DedicatedWorker()` calls in `Document` and
`DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope`.
- [ClassicDedicatedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/3084)
: Counts of new DedicatedWorker() calls with `{ type: 'classic' }` or without `WorkerOptions#type` argument.
- [ModuleDedicatedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/3085)
: Counts of new DedicatedWorker() calls with `{ type: 'module' }`.
- [NestedDedicatedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2499)
: Counts of `new DedicatedWorker()` calls in `DedicatedWorkerGlobalScope`.
- [SharedWorkerStart](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/5)
: Counts of `new SharedWorker()` calls in `Document`.
- [ClassicSharedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/3148)
: Counts of new SharedWorker() calls with `{ type: 'classic' }` or without `WorkerOptions#type` argument.
- [ModuleSharedWorker](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/3149)
: Counts of new SharedWorker() calls with `{ type: 'module' }`.
- [WorkletAddModule](https://www.chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2364)
: Counts of `Worklet#addModule()` calls in `Document`. This includes all worklet
types. Each worklet type has its own counter, too.

## UMA

The UMA data is internal-only.

- WorkerThread.ExitCode : Records the exit code of `WorkerThread`.

# Tests

When you add a new worker or worklet type, please consider adding tests in
following files and directories to check integration with the underlying worker
and worklet infrastructure.

- Web Platform Tests
  - [workers/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/workers/)
  - [worklets/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/worklets/)
- Web tests
  - [webexposed/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/webexposed/)
  - [workers/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/http/tests/workers/)
  - [worklet/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/http/tests/worklet/)
- Unit tests
  - [content/browser/worker_host/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/browser/worker_host/)
  - [content/renderer/worker/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/renderer/worker/)
  - [third_party/blink/renderer/core/workers/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/renderer/core/workers/)
- Browser tests
  - [chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc)
  - [content/browser/worker_host/worker_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/content/browser/worker_host/worker_browsertest.cc)

Workers and worklets interact with various features. You should also add tests
in the following files and directories to avoid breakage.

- Web Platform Tests
  - [content-security-policy/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/content-security-policy/)
  - [fetch/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/fetch/)
  - [mixed-content/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/mixed-content/)
  - [performance-timeline/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/performance-timeline/)
  - [referrer-policy/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/referrer-policy/)
  - [resource-timing/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/resource-timing/)
  - [secure-contexts/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/secure-contexts/)
  - [service-workers/service-worker/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/service-workers/service-worker/)
  - [upgrade-insecure-requests/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/upgrade-insecure-requests/)
  - [websockets/](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/websockets/)
- Browser tests
  - [chrome/browser/chrome_do_not_track_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/chrome_do_not_track_browsertest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/chrome_worker_browsertest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/extensions/api/web_request/web_request_apitest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/extensions/api/web_request/web_request_apitest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/ssl/ssl_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/ssl/ssl_browsertest.cc)
  - [chrome/browser/subresource_filter/subresource_filter_browsertest.cc](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/chrome/browser/subresource_filter/subresource_filter_browsertest.cc)

# References

- [WorkerGlobalScope Initialization](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JCv8TD2nPLNC2iRCp_D1OM4I3uTS0HoEobuTymaMqgw/edit?usp=sharing) (April 1, 2019)
- [Worker / Worklet Internals](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GZJ3VnLIO_Pw0jr9nRw6_-trg68ol-AkliMxJ6jo6Bo/edit?usp=sharing) (April 19, 2018)
- [Design of UseCounter for workers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VyYZnhjBdk-MzCRAcX37TM5-yjwTY40U_J9rWnEAo8c/edit?usp=sharing) (Feb 14, 2017)
