remoting/base/grpc_support/README.md, before:

## Using GrpcAsyncExecutor

gRPC++ uses
[completion queue](https://grpc.io/docs/tutorials/async/helloasync-cpp.html)
to handle async operations. It doesn't fit well with Chromium's callback-based
async handling paradigm, and it is technically still a blocking API unless you
create a new thread to run the queue. gRPC is working on adding callback-based
APIs but it won't be ready to use in the near future, so we created a
GrpcAsyncExecutor class to help adapting gRPC's completion queue logic into
Chromium's callback paradigm.

### Basic usage

```cpp
class MyClass {
  public:
  MyClass() = default;
  ~MyClass() = default;

  void SayHello() {
    HelloRequest request;
    // Requests will be silently dropped once the executor is destroyed, so it's
    // safe to bind with raw pointers.
    auto grpc_request = CreateGrpcAsyncUnaryRequest(
        base::BindOnce(&HelloService::Stub::AsyncSayHello,
                       base::Unretained(stub_.get())),
        std::make_unique<grpc::ClientContext>(), request,
        base::BindOnce(&MyClass::OnHelloResult,
                       base::Unretained(this)));
    executor_->ExecuteRpc(std::move(grpc_request));
  }

  void StartHelloStream() {
    StreamHelloRequest request;
    auto grpc_Request = CreateGrpcAsyncServerStreamingRequest(
        base::BindOnce(&HelloService::Stub::AsyncStreamHello,
                       base::Unretained(stub_.get())),
        std::make_unique<grpc::ClientContext>(), request,
        base::BindRepeating(&MyClass::OnHelloStreamMessage,
                            base::Unretained(this)),
        base::BindOnce(&MyClass::OnHelloStreamClosed,
                       base::Unretained(this)),
        &scoped_hello_stream_);
    executor_->ExecuteRpc(std::move(grpc_request));
  }

  void CloseHelloStream() {
    scoped_hello_stream_.reset();
  }

  private:
  void OnHelloResult(const grpc::Status& status,
                     const HelloResponse& response) {
    if (!status.ok()) {
      // Handle error here.
      return;
    }

    // Response is received. Use the result here.
  }

  void OnHelloStreamMessage(const HelloStreamResponse& response) {
    // This will be called every time the server sends back messages
    // through the stream.
  }

  void OnHelloStreamClosed(const grpc::Status& status) {
    if (!status.ok()) {
      // Handle error here.
      return;
    }

    // Stream is closed by the server.
  }

  std::unique_ptr<HelloService::Stub> stub_;
  GrpcAsyncExecutor executor_;
  std::unique_ptr<ScopedGrpcServerStream> scoped_hello_stream_;
};
```

## Using GrpcAuthenticatedExecutor

GrpcAuthenticatedExecutor allows you to execute RPCs and authenticate them
with `remoting::OAuthTokenGetter`. The usage is basically the same as
`GrpcAsyncExecutor`.

Commit message:

[remoting][gRPC] Remove grpc::ClientContext from request creators
Currently both CreateGrpcAsync.*Request() functions take a unique_ptr
of grpc::ClientContext, however it turns out most of the requests don't
need to set that.

This CL removes that parameter from these functions. Callers who need
to change the client context can acccess GrpcAsyncRequest::context
directly.

Change-Id: Ia00f67e0127526e3210f0c226c2f56d4281750df
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/1606660
Commit-Queue: Yuwei Huang <yuweih@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Joe Downing <joedow@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Joe Downing <joedow@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#658742}

remoting/base/grpc_support/README.md, after:

## Using GrpcAsyncExecutor

gRPC++ uses
[completion queue](https://grpc.io/docs/tutorials/async/helloasync-cpp.html)
to handle async operations. It doesn't fit well with Chromium's callback-based
async handling paradigm, and it is technically still a blocking API unless you
create a new thread to run the queue. gRPC is working on adding callback-based
APIs but it won't be ready to use in the near future, so we created a
GrpcAsyncExecutor class to help adapting gRPC's completion queue logic into
Chromium's callback paradigm.

### Basic usage

```cpp
class MyClass {
  public:
  MyClass() = default;
  ~MyClass() = default;

  void SayHello() {
    HelloRequest request;
    // Requests will be silently dropped once the executor is destroyed, so it's
    // safe to bind with raw pointers.
    auto grpc_request = CreateGrpcAsyncUnaryRequest(
        base::BindOnce(&HelloService::Stub::AsyncSayHello,
                       base::Unretained(stub_.get())),
        request,
        base::BindOnce(&MyClass::OnHelloResult,
                       base::Unretained(this)));

    // Optional. The library sets a default deadline for you if it is not set.
    SetDeadline(grpc_request->context(), kSomeDeadline);

    executor_->ExecuteRpc(std::move(grpc_request));
  }

  void StartHelloStream() {
    StreamHelloRequest request;
    auto grpc_Request = CreateGrpcAsyncServerStreamingRequest(
        base::BindOnce(&HelloService::Stub::AsyncStreamHello,
                       base::Unretained(stub_.get())),
        request,
        base::BindRepeating(&MyClass::OnHelloStreamMessage,
                            base::Unretained(this)),
        base::BindOnce(&MyClass::OnHelloStreamClosed,
                       base::Unretained(this)),
        &scoped_hello_stream_);
    executor_->ExecuteRpc(std::move(grpc_request));
  }

  void CloseHelloStream() {
    scoped_hello_stream_.reset();
  }

  private:
  void OnHelloResult(const grpc::Status& status,
                     const HelloResponse& response) {
    if (!status.ok()) {
      // Handle error here.
      return;
    }

    // Response is received. Use the result here.
  }

  void OnHelloStreamMessage(const HelloStreamResponse& response) {
    // This will be called every time the server sends back messages
    // through the stream.
  }

  void OnHelloStreamClosed(const grpc::Status& status) {
    if (!status.ok()) {
      // Handle error here.
      return;
    }

    // Stream is closed by the server.
  }

  std::unique_ptr<HelloService::Stub> stub_;
  GrpcAsyncExecutor executor_;
  std::unique_ptr<ScopedGrpcServerStream> scoped_hello_stream_;
};
```

## Using GrpcAuthenticatedExecutor

GrpcAuthenticatedExecutor allows you to execute RPCs and authenticate them
with `remoting::OAuthTokenGetter`. The usage is basically the same as
`GrpcAsyncExecutor`.
