docs/media/gpu/video_decoder_test_usage.md, before:

# Video Decoder tests

The video decoder tests are a set of tests used to validate various video
decoder implementations. Multiple scenarios are tested, and the resulting
decoded frames are validated against known checksums. These tests run directly
on top of the video decoder implementation, and don't require the full Chrome
browser stack. They can be very useful when adding support for a new codec or
platform, or to make sure code changes don't break existing functionality. They
are build on top of the
[GoogleTest](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/README.md)
framework.

[TOC]

## Running from Tast
The Tast framework provides an easy way to run the video decoder tests from a
ChromeOS chroot. Test data is automatically deployed to the device being tested.
To run all video decoder tests use:

    tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelH264* video.DecodeAccelVP*

Wildcards can be used to run specific sets of tests:
* Run all VP8 tests: `tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelVP8*`
* Run all VP9 profile 2 tests: `tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelVP92*`

Check the
[tast video folder](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast-tests/+/refs/heads/master/src/chromiumos/tast/local/bundles/cros/video/)
for a list of all available tests.
See the
[Tast quickstart guide](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast/+/HEAD/docs/quickstart.md)
for more information about the Tast framework.

## Running manually
To run the video decoder tests manually the _video_decode_accelerator_tests_
target needs to be built and deployed to the device being tested. Running
the video decoder tests can be done by executing:

    ./video_decode_accelerator_tests [<video path>] [<video metadata path>]

e.g.: `./video_decode_accelerator_tests test-25fps.h264`

__Test videos:__ Test videos are present for multiple codecs in the
[_media/test/data_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/)
folder in Chromium's source tree (e.g.
[_test-25fps.vp8_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.vp8)).
If no video is specified _test-25fps.h264_ will be used.

__Video Metadata:__ These videos also have an accompanying metadata _.json_ file
that needs to be deployed alongside the test video. They can also be found in
the _media/test/data_ folder (e.g.
[_test-25fps.h264.json_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.h264.json)).
If no metadata file is specified _\<video path\>.json_ will be used. The video
metadata file contains info about the video such as its codec profile,
dimensions, number of frames and a list of md5 frame checksums to validate
decoded frames. These frame checksums can be generated using ffmpeg, e.g.:
`ffmpeg -i test-25fps.h264 -f framemd5 test-25fps.h264.frames.md5`.

## Command line options
Multiple command line arguments can be given to the command:

     -v                  enable verbose mode, e.g. -v=2.
    --vmodule            enable verbose mode for the specified module,
                         e.g. --vmodule=*media/gpu*=2.

    --disable_validator  disable frame validation.
    --use_vd             use the new VD-based video decoders, instead of
                         the default VDA-based video decoders.

    --output_frames      write the selected video frames to disk, possible
                         values are "all|corrupt".
    --output_format      set the format of frames saved to disk, supported
                         formats are "png" (default) and "yuv".
    --output_limit       limit the number of frames saved to disk.
    --output_folder      set the folder used to store frames, defaults to
                         "<testname>"

    --gtest_help         display the gtest help and exit.
    --help               display this help and exit.

## Source code
See the video decoder tests [source code](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/gpu/video_decode_accelerator_tests.cc).

Commit message:

media/gpu/test: Update video decoder (perf) test usage documentation.
This CL updates the video_decoder_(perf_)tests usage documentation with
the additional "--use_vd_vda" parameter that was added recently.

BUG=None
TEST=checked doc in gitiles

Change-Id: I175ba21fe3563d092409a3202c7257dae90d520a
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2215394
Reviewed-by: Chih-Yu Huang <akahuang@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: David Staessens <dstaessens@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#772116}

docs/media/gpu/video_decoder_test_usage.md, after:

# Video Decoder tests

The video decoder tests are a set of tests used to validate various video
decoder implementations. Multiple scenarios are tested, and the resulting
decoded frames are validated against known checksums. These tests run directly
on top of the video decoder implementation, and don't require the full Chrome
browser stack. They can be very useful when adding support for a new codec or
platform, or to make sure code changes don't break existing functionality. They
are build on top of the
[GoogleTest](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/README.md)
framework.

[TOC]

## Running from Tast
The Tast framework provides an easy way to run the video decoder tests from a
ChromeOS chroot. Test data is automatically deployed to the device being tested.
To run all video decoder tests use:

    tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelH264* video.DecodeAccelVP*

Wildcards can be used to run specific sets of tests:
* Run all VP8 tests: `tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelVP8*`
* Run all VP9 profile 2 tests: `tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelVP92*`

Check the
[tast video folder](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast-tests/+/refs/heads/master/src/chromiumos/tast/local/bundles/cros/video/)
for a list of all available tests.
See the
[Tast quickstart guide](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast/+/HEAD/docs/quickstart.md)
for more information about the Tast framework.

## Running manually
To run the video decoder tests manually the _video_decode_accelerator_tests_
target needs to be built and deployed to the device being tested. Running
the video decoder tests can be done by executing:

    ./video_decode_accelerator_tests [<video path>] [<video metadata path>]

e.g.: `./video_decode_accelerator_tests test-25fps.h264`

__Test videos:__ Test videos are present for multiple codecs in the
[_media/test/data_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/)
folder in Chromium's source tree (e.g.
[_test-25fps.vp8_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.vp8)).
If no video is specified _test-25fps.h264_ will be used.

__Video Metadata:__ These videos also have an accompanying metadata _.json_ file
that needs to be deployed alongside the test video. They can also be found in
the _media/test/data_ folder (e.g.
[_test-25fps.h264.json_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.h264.json)).
If no metadata file is specified _\<video path\>.json_ will be used. The video
metadata file contains info about the video such as its codec profile,
dimensions, number of frames and a list of md5 frame checksums to validate
decoded frames. These frame checksums can be generated using ffmpeg, e.g.:
`ffmpeg -i test-25fps.h264 -f framemd5 test-25fps.h264.frames.md5`.

## Command line options
Multiple command line arguments can be given to the command:

     -v                  enable verbose mode, e.g. -v=2.
    --vmodule            enable verbose mode for the specified module,
                         e.g. --vmodule=*media/gpu*=2.

    --disable_validator  disable frame validation.
    --use_vd             use the new VD-based video decoders, instead of
                         the default VDA-based video decoders.
    --use_vd_vda         use the new VD-based video decoders with a wrapper
                         that translates to the VDA interface, used to test
                         interaction with older components expecting the VDA
                         interface.

    --output_frames      write the selected video frames to disk, possible
                         values are "all|corrupt".
    --output_format      set the format of frames saved to disk, supported
                         formats are "png" (default) and "yuv".
    --output_limit       limit the number of frames saved to disk.
    --output_folder      set the folder used to store frames, defaults to
                         "<testname>"

    --gtest_help         display the gtest help and exit.
    --help               display this help and exit.

## Source code
See the video decoder tests [source code](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/gpu/video_decode_accelerator_tests.cc).
