content/test/data/accessibility/readme.md, before:

# DumpAccessibilityTreeTest and DumpAccessibilityEventsTest Notes:

Both sets of tests use a similar format for files.

`DumpAccessibilityTree` tests load an HTML file, wait for it to load, then
dump the accessibility tree.

Each test is parameterized to run multiple times.  Most platforms dump in the
"blink" format (the internal data), and again in a "native" (platform-specific)
format.  The Windows platform has a second native format, "uia", so it runs a
third time.  The test name indicates which test pass was run, e.g.,
`DumpAccessibilityTreeTest.TestName/blink`.  (Note: for easier identification,
the Windows, Mac, Linux, and Android platforms rename the "native" pass to
"win", "mac", "linux" and "android", respectively.)

The test output is a compact text representation of the accessibility tree
for that format, and it should be familiar if you're familiar with the
accessibility protocol on that platform, but it's not in a standardized
format - it's just a text dump, meant to be compared to expected output.

The exact output can be filtered so it only dumps the specific attributes
you care about for a specific test.

Once the output has been generated, it compares the output to an expectation
file in the same directory. If an expectation file for that test for that
platform is present, it must match exactly or the test fails. If no
expectation file is present, the test passes. Most tests don't have
expectations on all platforms.

`DumpAccessibilityEvent` tests use a similar format but dump events fired after
the document finishes loading. See more on this below.

## Compiling and running the tests:
```
ninja -C out/Debug content_browsertests
out/Debug/content_browsertests --gtest_filter="DumpAccessibility*"
```

## Files used:

* `foo.html` -- a file to be tested
* `foo-expected-android.txt` -- expected Android AccessibilityNodeInfo output
* `foo-expected-auralinux.txt` -- expected Linux ATK output
* `foo-expected-blink.txt` -- representation of internal accessibility tree
* `foo-expected-mac.txt` -- expected Mac NSAccessibility output
* `foo-expected-win.txt` -- expected Win IAccessible/IAccessible2 output
* `foo-expected-uia-win.txt` -- expected Win UIA output
* `foo-expected-uia-win7.txt` -- expected Win7 UIA output (Version Specific
  Expected File)

## Format for expected files:

* Blank lines and lines beginning with `#` are ignored
* Skipped files: if first line of file begins with `#<skip` then the
  test passes. This can be used to indicate desired output with a link
  to a bug, or as a way to temporarily disable a test during refactoring.
* Use 2 plus signs for indent to show hierarchy

## Version Specific Expected Files

UIA sometimes differs between windows 7 and later versions of
Windows. To account for these differences, the UIA accessibility
tree formatter will look for a version specific expected file first:
`foo-expected-uia-win7.txt`. If the version specific expected file
does not exist, the normal expected file will be used instead:
"`foo-expected-uia-win.txt`". There is no concept of version
specific filters.

## Filters:

* By default only some attributes of nodes in the accessibility tree, or
  events fired (when running `DumpAccessibilityEvents`), are output.
  This is to keep the tests robust and not prone to failure when unrelated
  changes affect the accessibility tree in unimportant ways.
* Filters contained in the HTML file can be used to control what is output.
  They can appear anywhere but typically they're in an HTML comment block,
  and must be one per line.
* Filters are platform-specific:
```
    @WIN-
    @UIA-WIN-
    @MAC-
    @BLINK-
    @ANDROID-
    @AURALINUX-
```
* To dump all attributes while writing or debugging a test, add this filter:
  `@WIN-ALLOW:*` (and similarly for other platforms).
* Once you know what you want to output, you can use filters to match the
  attributes and attribute values you want included in the output. An
  `ALLOW` filter means to include the attribute, and a `DENY` filter means to
  exclude it. Filters can contain simple wildcards (`*`) only, they're not
  regular expressions. Examples:

  - `@WIN-ALLOW:name*` - this will output the name attribute on Windows
  - `@WIN-ALLOW:name='Foo'` - this will only output the name attribute if it
    exactly matches 'Foo'.
  - `@WIN-DENY:name='X*` - this will skip outputting any name that begins with
    the letter X.

* By default empty attributes are skipped. To output the value of an attribute
  even if it's empty, use `@WIN-ALLOW-EMPTY:name`, for example, and similarly
  for other platforms.


## Advanced:

Normally the system waits for the document to finish loading before dumping
the accessibility tree.

Occasionally you may need to write a dump tree test that makes some changes to
the document before it runs the test. In that case you can use a special
`@WAIT-FOR:` directive. It should be in an HTML comment, just like
`@ALLOW-WIN:` directives. The `WAIT-FOR` directive just specifies a text
substring that should be present in the dump when the document is ready. The
system will keep blocking until that text appears.

You can add as many `@WAIT-FOR:` directives as you want, the test won't finish
until all strings appear.

You may also want to execute script and then capture a dump. Rather than use
`setTimeout` and `@WAIT-FOR:`, consider using the `@EXECUTE-AND-WAIT-FOR:`
directive. This directive expects a javascript function that returns a string to
wait for. If a string is not returned, the tree dumper will not wait.
`@EXECUTE-AND-WAIT-FOR:` directives are executed in order, after the document is
ready and all `@WAIT-FOR:` strings have been found.
Example: `@EXECUTE-AND-WAIT-FOR: foo()`

Or, you may need to write an event test that keeps dumping events until a
specific event line. In this case, use `@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT` with a substring that
should occur in the event log, e.g.,
`@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT:IA2_EVENT_TEXT_CARET_MOVED`. Note that `@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT` is
only used in dump events tests, and not used in dump tree tests.

If you add multiple `@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT` directives, the test will finish once any
of them are satisfied. Note that any other events that come along with the last
event will also be logged.

To skip dumping a particular element, make its accessible name equal to
`@NO_DUMP`, for example `<div aria-label="@NO_DUMP"></div>`.

To skip dumping all children of a particular element, make its accessible
name equal to `@NO_CHILDREN_DUMP`, for example
`<div aria-label="@NO_CHILDREN_DUMP"></div>`.

To load an iframe from a different site, forcing it into a different process,
use `/cross-site/HOSTNAME/` in the url, for example:
`<iframe src="cross-site/1.com/accessibility/html/frame.html"></iframe>`

## Generating expectations and rebaselining:

If you want to populate the expectation file directly rather than typing it
or copying-and-pasting it, first make sure the file exists (it can be empty),
then run the test with the `--generate-accessibility-test-expectations`
argument, for example:
```
  out/Debug/content_browsertests \
    --generate-accessibility-test-expectations \
    --gtest_filter="All/DumpAccessibilityTreeTest.AccessibilityAriaAtomic/*"
```
This will replace the `-expected-*.txt` file with the current output. It's
a great way to rebaseline a bunch of tests after making a change. Please
manually check the diff, of course!

The * is a wildcard and will match any substring, in this case all platforms.
To run on a single platform, replace the wildcard, e.g.:
```
  --gtest_filter="All/DumpAccessibilityTreeTest.AccessibilityAriaAtomic/linux"
```

For more information, see the detailed help with:
```
  out/Debug/content_browsertests --gtest_help
```

## Adding a new test:

If you are adding a new test file remember to add a corresponding test case in:
* `content/browser/accessibility/dump_accessibility_events_browsertest.cc`; or
* `content/browser/accessibility/dump_accessibility_tree_browsertest.cc`

## More details on DumpAccessibilityEvents tests:

These tests are similar to `DumpAccessibilityTree` tests in that they first
load an HTML document, then dump something, then compare the output to
an expectation file. The difference is that what's dumped is accessibility
events that are fired.

To write a test for accessibility events, your document must contain a
JavaScript function called `go()`. This function will be called when the
document is loaded (or when the `@WAIT_FOR` directive passes), and any
subsequent events will be dumped. Filters apply to events just like in tree
dumps.

After calling `go()`, the system asks the page to generate a sentinel
accessibility event - one you're unlikely to generate in your test. It uses
that event to know when to "stop" dumping events. There isn't currently a
way to test events that occur after some delay, just ones that happen as
a direct result of calling `go()`.

### Duplicate Events on UIA
Windows will "translate" some IA2 events to UIA, and it is not
possible to turn this feature off. Therefore as our UIA behavior is in addition
to IA2, we will receive duplicated events for Focus, MenuOpened and MenuClosed.

Commit message:

Reland "Batch accessibility event processing during page load"
This is a reland of f5d9ecea54cd48cb1aaa2f7d4b0bbaf909063316

The only change from the original is in kiosk_browsertest.cc
We need to WaitUntilSatisfied when check_launch_data is set.

Original change's description:
> Batch accessibility event processing during page load
>
> This change allows us to defer sending events to
> improve performance during the initial page load.
>
> EventScheduleMode determines if we schedule events
> with a delay or not.
>
> EventScheduleStatus replaces ack_pending_, and tracks
> what state we are in with regard to event scheduling.
>
> This is based on:
> CL 1691523: Large batch accessibility event processing
> during page load
>
> Bug: 976849
> Change-Id: I74cd5f31102199f8c5752e0ef5d0eb623fdbd9d0
> Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2123310
> Reviewed-by: Dominic Mazzoni <dmazzoni@chromium.org>
> Reviewed-by: Adithya Srinivasan <adithyas@chromium.org>
> Commit-Queue: Jacques Newman <janewman@microsoft.com>
> Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#769010}

Bug: 976849
Change-Id: Ia3450c1c59c6bac173046c389afeb403ab2991a6
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2203772
Reviewed-by: Adithya Srinivasan <adithyas@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Dominic Mazzoni <dmazzoni@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Alexander Alekseev <alemate@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Jacques Newman <janewman@microsoft.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#770405}

content/test/data/accessibility/readme.md, after:

# DumpAccessibilityTreeTest and DumpAccessibilityEventsTest Notes:

Both sets of tests use a similar format for files.

`DumpAccessibilityTree` tests load an HTML file, wait for it to load, then
dump the accessibility tree.

Each test is parameterized to run multiple times.  Most platforms dump in the
"blink" format (the internal data), and again in a "native" (platform-specific)
format.  The Windows platform has a second native format, "uia", so it runs a
third time.  The test name indicates which test pass was run, e.g.,
`DumpAccessibilityTreeTest.TestName/blink`.  (Note: for easier identification,
the Windows, Mac, Linux, and Android platforms rename the "native" pass to
"win", "mac", "linux" and "android", respectively.)

The test output is a compact text representation of the accessibility tree
for that format, and it should be familiar if you're familiar with the
accessibility protocol on that platform, but it's not in a standardized
format - it's just a text dump, meant to be compared to expected output.

The exact output can be filtered so it only dumps the specific attributes
you care about for a specific test.

Once the output has been generated, it compares the output to an expectation
file in the same directory. If an expectation file for that test for that
platform is present, it must match exactly or the test fails. If no
expectation file is present, the test passes. Most tests don't have
expectations on all platforms.

`DumpAccessibilityEvent` tests use a similar format but dump events fired after
the document finishes loading. See more on this below.

## Compiling and running the tests:
```
ninja -C out/Debug content_browsertests
out/Debug/content_browsertests --gtest_filter="DumpAccessibility*"
```

## Files used:

* `foo.html` -- a file to be tested
* `foo-expected-android.txt` -- expected Android AccessibilityNodeInfo output
* `foo-expected-auralinux.txt` -- expected Linux ATK output
* `foo-expected-blink.txt` -- representation of internal accessibility tree
* `foo-expected-mac.txt` -- expected Mac NSAccessibility output
* `foo-expected-win.txt` -- expected Win IAccessible/IAccessible2 output
* `foo-expected-uia-win.txt` -- expected Win UIA output
* `foo-expected-uia-win7.txt` -- expected Win7 UIA output (Version Specific
  Expected File)

## Format for expected files:

* Blank lines and lines beginning with `#` are ignored
* Skipped files: if first line of file begins with `#<skip` then the
  test passes. This can be used to indicate desired output with a link
  to a bug, or as a way to temporarily disable a test during refactoring.
* Use 2 plus signs for indent to show hierarchy

## Version Specific Expected Files

UIA sometimes differs between windows 7 and later versions of
Windows. To account for these differences, the UIA accessibility
tree formatter will look for a version specific expected file first:
`foo-expected-uia-win7.txt`. If the version specific expected file
does not exist, the normal expected file will be used instead:
"`foo-expected-uia-win.txt`". There is no concept of version
specific filters.

## Filters:

* By default only some attributes of nodes in the accessibility tree, or
  events fired (when running `DumpAccessibilityEvents`), are output.
  This is to keep the tests robust and not prone to failure when unrelated
  changes affect the accessibility tree in unimportant ways.
* Filters contained in the HTML file can be used to control what is output.
  They can appear anywhere but typically they're in an HTML comment block,
  and must be one per line.
* Filters are platform-specific:
```
    @WIN-
    @UIA-WIN-
    @MAC-
    @BLINK-
    @ANDROID-
    @AURALINUX-
```
* To dump all attributes while writing or debugging a test, add this filter:
  `@WIN-ALLOW:*` (and similarly for other platforms).
* Once you know what you want to output, you can use filters to match the
  attributes and attribute values you want included in the output. An
  `ALLOW` filter means to include the attribute, and a `DENY` filter means to
  exclude it. Filters can contain simple wildcards (`*`) only, they're not
  regular expressions. Examples:

  - `@WIN-ALLOW:name*` - this will output the name attribute on Windows
  - `@WIN-ALLOW:name='Foo'` - this will only output the name attribute if it
    exactly matches 'Foo'.
  - `@WIN-DENY:name='X*` - this will skip outputting any name that begins with
    the letter X.

* By default empty attributes are skipped. To output the value of an attribute
  even if it's empty, use `@WIN-ALLOW-EMPTY:name`, for example, and similarly
  for other platforms.


## Advanced:

Normally the system waits for the document to finish loading before dumping
the accessibility tree.

Occasionally you may need to write a dump tree test that makes some changes to
the document before it runs the test. In that case you can use a special
`@WAIT-FOR:` directive. It should be in an HTML comment, just like
`@ALLOW-WIN:` directives. The `WAIT-FOR` directive just specifies a text
substring that should be present in the dump when the document is ready. The
system will keep blocking until that text appears.

You can add as many `@WAIT-FOR:` directives as you want, the test won't finish
until all strings appear.

You may also want to execute script and then capture a dump. Rather than use
`setTimeout` and `@WAIT-FOR:`, consider using the `@EXECUTE-AND-WAIT-FOR:`
directive. This directive expects a javascript function that returns a string to
wait for. If a string is not returned, the tree dumper will not wait.
`@EXECUTE-AND-WAIT-FOR:` directives are executed in order, after the document is
ready and all `@WAIT-FOR:` strings have been found.
Example: `@EXECUTE-AND-WAIT-FOR: foo()`

Or, you may need to write an event test that keeps dumping events until a
specific event line. In this case, use `@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT` with a substring that
should occur in the event log, e.g.,
`@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT:IA2_EVENT_TEXT_CARET_MOVED`. Note that `@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT` is
only used in dump events tests, and not used in dump tree tests.

If you add multiple `@RUN-UNTIL-EVENT` directives, the test will finish once any
of them are satisfied. Note that any other events that come along with the last
event will also be logged.

To skip dumping a particular element, make its accessible name equal to
`@NO_DUMP`, for example `<div aria-label="@NO_DUMP"></div>`.

To skip dumping all children of a particular element, make its accessible
name equal to `@NO_CHILDREN_DUMP`, for example
`<div aria-label="@NO_CHILDREN_DUMP"></div>`.

To load an iframe from a different site, forcing it into a different process,
use `/cross-site/HOSTNAME/` in the url, for example:
`<iframe src="cross-site/1.com/accessibility/html/frame.html"></iframe>`

If you do not expect an iframe or object to load, (e.g. testing fallback), you
can use the `@NO-LOAD-EXPECTED:` to cause the test to not wait for that frame to
finish loading. For example the test would not wait for a url containing 
"broken.jpg" to load:
`@NO-LOAD-EXPECTED:broken.jpg`
`<object data="./broken.jpg">Fallback</object`


## Generating expectations and rebaselining:

If you want to populate the expectation file directly rather than typing it
or copying-and-pasting it, first make sure the file exists (it can be empty),
then run the test with the `--generate-accessibility-test-expectations`
argument, for example:
```
  out/Debug/content_browsertests \
    --generate-accessibility-test-expectations \
    --gtest_filter="All/DumpAccessibilityTreeTest.AccessibilityAriaAtomic/*"
```
This will replace the `-expected-*.txt` file with the current output. It's
a great way to rebaseline a bunch of tests after making a change. Please
manually check the diff, of course!

The * is a wildcard and will match any substring, in this case all platforms.
To run on a single platform, replace the wildcard, e.g.:
```
  --gtest_filter="All/DumpAccessibilityTreeTest.AccessibilityAriaAtomic/linux"
```

For more information, see the detailed help with:
```
  out/Debug/content_browsertests --gtest_help
```

## Adding a new test:

If you are adding a new test file remember to add a corresponding test case in:
* `content/browser/accessibility/dump_accessibility_events_browsertest.cc`; or
* `content/browser/accessibility/dump_accessibility_tree_browsertest.cc`

## More details on DumpAccessibilityEvents tests:

These tests are similar to `DumpAccessibilityTree` tests in that they first
load an HTML document, then dump something, then compare the output to
an expectation file. The difference is that what's dumped is accessibility
events that are fired.

To write a test for accessibility events, your document must contain a
JavaScript function called `go()`. This function will be called when the
document is loaded (or when the `@WAIT_FOR` directive passes), and any
subsequent events will be dumped. Filters apply to events just like in tree
dumps.

After calling `go()`, the system asks the page to generate a sentinel
accessibility event - one you're unlikely to generate in your test. It uses
that event to know when to "stop" dumping events. There isn't currently a
way to test events that occur after some delay, just ones that happen as
a direct result of calling `go()`.

### Duplicate Events on UIA
Windows will "translate" some IA2 events to UIA, and it is not
possible to turn this feature off. Therefore as our UIA behavior is in addition
to IA2, we will receive duplicated events for Focus, MenuOpened and MenuClosed.
