third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/shape-detection/README.md, before:

The `shapedetection-helpers.js` tests require implementations of
the `FaceDetectionTest` and `BarcodeDetectionTest` interfaces, which
should emulate platform shape detection backends.

The `FaceDetectionTest` interface is defined as:

```
  class FaceDetectionTest {
    async initialize();  // Sets up the testing environment.
    async reset(); // Frees the resources.
    MockFaceDetectionProvider(); //Returns `MockFaceDetectionProvider` interface.
  };

  class MockFaceDetectionProvider {
    getFrameData(); //Gets frame data of detection result.
    getMaxDetectedFaces(); //Gets value of `maxDetectedFaces` in `FaceDetector` constructor
    getFastMode(); //Gets value of `fastMode` in `FaceDetector` constructor
  };
```

The Chromium implementation of the `FaceDetectionTest` interface is located in
[mock-facedetection.js](../resources/chromium/mock-facedetection.js).

The `BarcodeDetectionTest` interface is defined as:

```
  class BarcodeDetectionTest {
    async initialize();  // Sets up the testing environment.
    async reset(); // Frees the resources.
    MockBarcodeDetectionProvider(); //Returns `MockBarcodeDetectionProvider` interface.
  };

  class MockBarcodeDetectionProvider {
    async enumerateSupportedFormats(); //Enumerates supported formats
    getFrameData(); //Gets frame data of detection result.
    getFormats(); //Gets value of `formats` in `BarcodeDetector` constructor
  };
```

The Chromium implementation of the `BarcodeDetectionTest` interface is located in
[mock-barcodedetection.js](../resources/chromium/mock-barcodedetection.js).

Other browser vendors should provide their own implementations of
the `FaceDetectionTest` and `BarcodeDetectionTest` interfaces.

Commit message:

Reland: [shapedetection] Upstream TextDetection tests to WPT
The original CL has been reverted because the test
external/wpt/shape-detection/idlharness.https.any.shareworker.html
is flaky on Mac. This reland CL disables this test on Mac.

Original change's description:
> [shapedetection] Upstream TextDetection tests to WPT
>
> This CL upstreams the reset of shapedetection tests(mainly
> TextDetection tests) to WPT.
>
> - Moves tests under
>   third_party/blink/web_tests/shapedetection/,
>   third_party/blink/web_tests/fast/shapedetection/,
>   third_party/blink/web_tests/http/tests/shapedetection/,
>   to third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/shape-detection.
> - Moves third_party/blink/web_tests/shapedetection/resources/mock-textdetection.js
>   to third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/resources/chromium/.
> - Removes third_party/blink/web_tests/fast/shapedetection/shapedetection-creation.html
>   as which should be covered in idlharness tests.
> - Introduces simulateClosedPipe() to MockBarcodeDetectionProvider to simulate
>   'no implementation available' case for
>   third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/shape-detection/detection-getSupportedFormats.https.html
> - Improves third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/shape-detection/detection-options.https.html
>   by using assert_throws_js BTW.
>
> Bug: 932382
> Change-Id: I2f795e4fa4f23b33c49b7924cdbcbccde5ac6ed4
> Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2131154
> Reviewed-by: Reilly Grant <reillyg@chromium.org>
> Commit-Queue: Wanming Lin <wanming.lin@intel.com>
> Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#756131}

Bug: 932382, 1067533
Change-Id: I85b5dcc841185e2edd20a76ed3aec8add7f08954
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2134924
Reviewed-by: Reilly Grant <reillyg@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Wanming Lin <wanming.lin@intel.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#756647}

third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/shape-detection/README.md, after:

The `shapedetection-helpers.js` tests require implementations of
the `FaceDetectionTest`, `BarcodeDetectionTest` and `TextDetectionTest`
interfaces, which should emulate platform shape detection backends.

The `FaceDetectionTest` interface is defined as:

```
  class FaceDetectionTest {
    async initialize();  // Sets up the testing environment.
    async reset(); // Frees the resources.
    MockFaceDetectionProvider(); //Returns `MockFaceDetectionProvider` interface.
  };

  class MockFaceDetectionProvider {
    getFrameData(); //Gets frame data of detection result.
    getMaxDetectedFaces(); //Gets value of `maxDetectedFaces` in `FaceDetector` constructor
    getFastMode(); //Gets value of `fastMode` in `FaceDetector` constructor
  };
```

The Chromium implementation of the `FaceDetectionTest` interface is located in
[mock-facedetection.js](../resources/chromium/mock-facedetection.js).

The `BarcodeDetectionTest` interface is defined as:

```
  class BarcodeDetectionTest {
    async initialize();  // Sets up the testing environment.
    async reset(); // Frees the resources.
    MockBarcodeDetectionProvider(); //Returns `MockBarcodeDetectionProvider` interface.
  };

  class MockBarcodeDetectionProvider {
    async enumerateSupportedFormats(); //Enumerates supported formats
    getFrameData(); //Gets frame data of detection result.
    getFormats(); //Gets value of `formats` in `BarcodeDetector` constructor
    simulateNoImplementation(); // simulate a 'no implementation available' case
  };
```

The Chromium implementation of the `BarcodeDetectionTest` interface is located in
[mock-barcodedetection.js](../resources/chromium/mock-barcodedetection.js).

The `TextDetectionTest` interface is defined as:

```
  class TextDetectionTest {
    async initialize();  // Sets up the testing environment.
    async reset(); // Frees the resources.
    MockTextDetection(); //Returns `MockTextDetection` interface.
  };

  class MockTextDetection {
    getFrameData(); //Gets frame data of detection result.
  };
```

The Chromium implementation of the `TextDetectionTest` interface is located in
[mock-textdetection.js](../resources/chromium/mock-textdetection.js).

Other browser vendors should provide their own implementations of
the `FaceDetectionTest`, `BarcodeDetectionTest` and `TextDetectionTest`
interfaces.
