chrome/browser/vr/test/xr_browser_tests.md, before:

# XR Browser Tests

## Introduction

This documentation concerns `xr_browser_test.h`, `xr_browser_test.cc`, and files
that use them or their subclasses.

These files port the framework used by XR instrumentation tests (located in
[`//chrome/android/javatests/src/org/chromium/chrome/browser/vr/`][1] and
documented in
`//chrome/android/javatests/src/org/chromium/chrome/browser/vr/*.md`) for
use in browser tests in order to test XR features on desktop platforms.

This is pretty much a direct port, with the same JavaScript/HTML files being
used for both and the Java/C++ code being functionally equivalent to each other,
so the instrumentation test's documentation on writing tests using the framework
is applicable here, too. As such, this documentation only covers any notable
differences between the two implementations.

## Restrictions

Both the instrumentation tests and browser tests have hardware/software
restrictions - in the case of browser tests, XR is only supported on Windows 8
and later (or Windows 7 with a non-standard patch applied) with a GPU that
supports DirectX 11.1.

Instrumentation tests handle restrictions with the `@Restriction` annotation,
but browser tests don't have any equivalent functionality. However, since
the browser tests don't require any setup outside of the tests like
instrumentation tests do (which require the paired viewer, etc. to be changed),
having the tests in their own target is sufficient to prevent us from running
into hardware incompatibility issues.

## Command Line Switches

Instrumentation tests are able to add and remove command line switches on a
per-test-case basis using `@CommandLine` annotations, but equivalent
functionality does not exist in browser tests.

Instead, if different command line flags are needed, a new class will need to
be created that extends the correct type of `*BrowserTestBase` and overrides the
flags that are set in its `SetUp` function.

## Compiling And Running

The tests are compiled in the `xr_browser_tests` target. This is a combination
of the `xr_browser_tests_binary` target, which is the actual test, and the
`xr_browser_tests_runner` target, which is a wrapper script that ensures special
setup is completed before running the tests.

Once compiled, the tests can be run using the following command line:

`run_xr_browser_tests.py --enable-gpu --test-launcher-jobs=1
--enable-pixel-output-in-tests`

Because the "test" is actually a Python wrapper script, you may need to prepend
`python` to the front of the command on Windows if Python file association is
not set up on your machine.

[1]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/chrome/android/javatests/src/org/chromium/chrome/browser/vr

Commit message:

Support skipping XR tests at runtime
Adds the ability to skip XR browser tests at runtime if requirements for
a test are not met.

As a result, also makes the browser test launcher properly handle gtest
reporting that a test was skipped, as previously it was treated as
an unknown error.

Currently, the only requirement that can be checked is whether a DirectX
11.1-capable GPU is present on the machine, but additional requirements
can be easily added.

Bug: 951469
Change-Id: I81c4cccf83bed3c13ec1d82ad99a16c29fba7cb5
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/1575030
Reviewed-by: Scott Violet <sky@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Bill Orr <billorr@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Brian Sheedy <bsheedy@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#657747}

chrome/browser/vr/test/xr_browser_tests.md, after:

# XR Browser Tests

## Introduction

This documentation concerns `xr_browser_test.h`, `xr_browser_test.cc`, and files
that use them or their subclasses.

These files port the framework used by XR instrumentation tests (located in
[`//chrome/android/javatests/src/org/chromium/chrome/browser/vr/`][1] and
documented in
`//chrome/android/javatests/src/org/chromium/chrome/browser/vr/*.md`) for
use in browser tests in order to test XR features on desktop platforms.

This is pretty much a direct port, with the same JavaScript/HTML files being
used for both and the Java/C++ code being functionally equivalent to each other,
so the instrumentation test's documentation on writing tests using the framework
is applicable here, too. As such, this documentation only covers any notable
differences between the two implementations.

## Restrictions

Both the instrumentation tests and browser tests have hardware/software
restrictions - in the case of browser tests, XR is only supported on Windows 8
and later (or Windows 7 with a non-standard patch applied) with a GPU that
supports DirectX 11.1, although several tests exist that don't actually use XR
functionality, and thus don't have these requirements.

Runtime restrictions in browser tests are handled via the macros in
`conditional_skipping.h`. To add a runtime requirement to a test class, simply
append it to the `runtime_requirements_` vector that each class has. The
test setup will automatically skip tests that don't meet all requirements.

One-off skipping within a test can also be done by using the XR_CONDITIONAL_SKIP
macro directly in a test.

The bots can be made to ignore these runtime requirement checks if we expect
the requirements to always be met (and thus we want the tests to fail if they
aren't) via the `--ignore-runtime-requirements` argument. This takes a
comma-separated list of requirements to ignore, or the wildcard (\*) to ignore
all requirements. For example, `--ignore-runtime-requirements=DirectX_11.1`
would cause a test that requires a DirectX 11.1 device to be run even if a
suitable device is not found.

New requirements can be added by adding to the `XrTestRequirement` enum in
`conditional_skipping.h` and adding its associated checking logic in
`conditional_skipping.cc`.

## Command Line Switches

Instrumentation tests are able to add and remove command line switches on a
per-test-case basis using `@CommandLine` annotations, but equivalent
functionality does not exist in browser tests.

Instead, if different command line flags are needed, a new class will need to
be created that extends the correct type of `*BrowserTestBase` and overrides the
flags that are set in its `SetUp` function.

## Compiling And Running

The tests are compiled in the `xr_browser_tests` target. This is a combination
of the `xr_browser_tests_binary` target, which is the actual test, and the
`xr_browser_tests_runner` target, which is a wrapper script that ensures special
setup is completed before running the tests.

Once compiled, the tests can be run using the following command line:

`run_xr_browser_tests.py --enable-gpu --test-launcher-jobs=1
--enable-pixel-output-in-tests`

Because the "test" is actually a Python wrapper script, you may need to prepend
`python` to the front of the command on Windows if Python file association is
not set up on your machine.

[1]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/chrome/android/javatests/src/org/chromium/chrome/browser/vr
