docs/branch_sheriff.md, before:

# Chromium Branch Sheriffing

This document describes how to be a Chromium *branch* sheriff and how sheriffing
on a branch differs from sheriffing on trunk. For trunk sheriffing guidance, see
[//docs/sheriff.md][sheriff-md].

[TOC]

## Philosophy

The goals of a branch sheriff are quite similar to those of a trunk sheriff.
Branch sheriffs need to ensure that:

1. **Compile failures get fixed**, because compile failures on branches block
all tests (both automated and manual) and consequently reduce our confidence
in the quality of what we're shipping, possibly to the point of blocking
releases.
2. **Consistent test failures get repaired**, because they similarly reduce
our confidence in the quality of our code.

**Communication** is important for sheriffs in general, but it's particularly
important for branch sheriffs. Over the course of your shift, you may need to
coordinate with trunk sheriffs, troopers, release TPMs, and others -- don't
hesitate to do so, particularly if you have questions.

## Processes

In general, you'll want to follow the same processes outlined in
[//docs/sheriff.md][sheriff-md]. There are some differences, though.

### Checkout

You'll need to ensure that your checkout is configured to check out the branch
heads. You can do so by running

```
  src $ gclient sync --with_branch_heads
```

> This only needs to be done once, though running it more than once won't hurt.

You may also need to run:

```
  src $ git fetch
```

Once you've done that, you'll be able to check out branches:

```
  src $ git checkout branch-heads/$BRANCH_NUMBER  # e.g. branch-heads/4044 for M81
  src $ gclient sync
```

To determine the appropriate branch number, you can either use
[chromiumdash](#chromiumdash) or check [milestone.json][milestone-json] directly.

### Flaky tests

You should largely ignore flaky tests for the time being unless you have
specific reason to believe that a flake was introduced by a cherry-pick to the
branch in question. If a test is flaky on both trunk *and* a release branch,
the trunk sheriffs should investigate it.

### Landing changes

When you need to land a change to a branch, you'll need to go through the same
merge approval process as other cherry-picks. You should feel free to ping the
relevant release TPM as listed on [chromiumdash][chromiumdash-schedule].

## Tools

### Sheriff-o-Matic

Use the [branch SoM console][sheriff-o-matic] rather than the main chromium console.

### Consoles

Use the [beta][main-beta] and [stable][main-stable] branch consoles rather than the main console.

### Chromiumdash

[chromiumdash][chromiumdash] can help you determine the branch number for a
particular milestone or channel, along with a host of other useful information:

  * [Branches][chromiumdash-branches] lists the branches for each milestone.
  * [Releases][chromiumdash-releases] lists the builds currently shipping to
    each channel, which can help map from channel to milestone or to branch.
  * [Schedule][chromiumdash-schedule] lists the relevant dates for each
    milestone and includes the release TPMs responsible for each milestone by
    platform.

### Rotation

The current branch sheriff is listed [here][rotation-home]. The configuration
and source of truth for the schedule lives [here][rotation-config]. To swap,
simply send a CL changing schedule at the bottom of the file.

[chromiumdash]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com
[chromiumdash-branches]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/branches
[chromiumdash-releases]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/releases
[chromiumdash-schedule]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule
[main-beta]: https://ci.chromium.org/p/chromium/g/main-m81/console
[main-stable]: https://ci.chromium.org/p/chromium/g/main-m80/console
[milestone-json]: https://goto.google.com/chrome-milestone-json
[rotation-home]: https://goto.google.com/chrome-branch-sheriff-amer-west
[rotation-config]: https://goto.google.com/chrome-branch-sheriff-amer-west-config
[sheriff-md]: /docs/sheriff.md
[sheriff-o-matic]: https://sheriff-o-matic.appspot.com/chrome_browser_release

Commit message:

Make improvements to Sheriffing documentation
Bug: 1034648
Change-Id: Ib846a51312469cfe2b8ab0fdd0c005f504aa4680
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2129243
Commit-Queue: Eric Foo <efoo@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: John Budorick <jbudorick@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Eric Foo <efoo@chromium.org>
Auto-Submit: Eric Foo <efoo@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#755198}

docs/branch_sheriff.md, after:

# Chromium Branch Sheriffing

This document describes how to be a Chromium *branch* sheriff and how sheriffing
on a branch differs from sheriffing on trunk. For trunk sheriffing guidance, see
[//docs/sheriff.md][sheriff-md].

[TOC]

## Philosophy

The goals of a branch sheriff are quite similar to those of a trunk sheriff.
Branch sheriffs need to ensure that:

1. **Compile failures get fixed**, because compile failures on branches block
all tests (both automated and manual) and consequently reduce our confidence
in the quality of what we're shipping, possibly to the point of blocking
releases.
2. **Consistent test failures get repaired**, because they similarly reduce
our confidence in the quality of our code.

**Communication** is important for sheriffs in general, but it's particularly
important for branch sheriffs. Over the course of your shift, you may need to
coordinate with trunk sheriffs, troopers, release TPMs, and others -- don't
hesitate to do so, particularly if you have questions.

Points of contact (i.e. platform-specific sheriffs) can be found
[here](http://goto.google.com/chrome-branch-sheriffing#points-of-contact).

## Processes

In general, you'll want to follow the same processes outlined in
[//docs/sheriff.md][sheriff-md]. There are some differences, though.

### Checkout

You'll need to ensure that your checkout is configured to check out the branch
heads. You can do so by running

```
  src $ gclient sync --with_branch_heads
```

> This only needs to be done once, though running it more than once won't hurt.

You may also need to run:

```
  src $ git fetch
```

Once you've done that, you'll be able to check out branches:

```
  src $ git checkout branch-heads/$BRANCH_NUMBER  # e.g. branch-heads/4044 for M81
  src $ gclient sync
```

To determine the appropriate branch number, you can either use
[chromiumdash](#chromiumdash) or check [milestone.json][milestone-json] directly.

### Findit
As FindIt is not available on branches, one way to try to find culprits is using
`git bisect` locally and upload changes to a gerrit CL and run the needed trybots
to check. This is especially useful when the errors are not reproducible on your
local builds or you don't have the required hardware to build the failed tests.

### Flaky tests

You should largely ignore flaky tests for the time being unless you have
specific reason to believe that a flake was introduced by a cherry-pick to the
branch in question. If a test is flaky on both trunk *and* a release branch,
the trunk sheriffs should investigate it.

### Landing changes

When you need to land a change to a branch, you'll need to go through the same
merge approval process as other cherry-picks. You should feel free to ping the
relevant release TPM as listed on [chromiumdash][chromiumdash-schedule].

## Tools

### Sheriff-o-Matic

Use the [branch SoM console][sheriff-o-matic] rather than the main chromium console.

### Consoles

Use the [beta][main-beta] and [stable][main-stable] branch consoles rather than the
main console. A new console is created for each milestone. They are named
"Chromium M## Console" and can be found under the
[Chromium Project](https://ci.chromium.org/p/chromium).

### Chromiumdash

[chromiumdash][chromiumdash] can help you determine the branch number for a
particular milestone or channel, along with a host of other useful information:

  * [Branches][chromiumdash-branches] lists the branches for each milestone.
  * [Releases][chromiumdash-releases] lists the builds currently shipping to
    each channel, which can help map from channel to milestone or to branch.
  * [Schedule][chromiumdash-schedule] lists the relevant dates for each
    milestone and includes the release TPMs responsible for each milestone by
    platform.

### Rotation

The current branch sheriff is listed [here][rotation-home]. The configuration
and source of truth for the schedule lives [here][rotation-config]. To swap,
simply send a CL changing schedule at the bottom of the file.

[chromiumdash]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com
[chromiumdash-branches]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/branches
[chromiumdash-releases]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/releases
[chromiumdash-schedule]: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule
[main-beta]: https://ci.chromium.org/p/chromium/g/main-m81/console
[main-stable]: https://ci.chromium.org/p/chromium/g/main-m80/console
[milestone-json]: https://goto.google.com/chrome-milestone-json
[rotation-home]: https://goto.google.com/chrome-branch-sheriff-amer-west
[rotation-config]: https://goto.google.com/chrome-branch-sheriff-amer-west-config
[sheriff-md]: /docs/sheriff.md
[sheriff-o-matic]: https://sheriff-o-matic.appspot.com/chrome_browser_release
